---
layout: post
title: Samosas
date: '2014-07-14T16:49:57-05:00'
tags:
- baked goodies
- curry
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/91782156635/samosas
---
This recipe from Carla Hall’s book Carla’s Comfort Foods was more trouble than I would have liked, but I think the game changer would be to ignore the directions to fold the samosas into a traditional triangle shape (which was hard with the surprisingly sensitive dough) and instead just make a rectangle of dough and fold in half into a square (see picture below). The taste was delicious, so it’s worth it, but that little change would make the whole process a lot easier! (Also, the filling is very tasty on its own over rice!)

Cream Cheese Dough
1 cup all purpose flour
½ tsp salt
6 tbsp (¾ stick) unsalted butter, cut into ½ inch dice
4 oz cold cream cheese, cut into 1 inch dice
In the bowl of an electric mixer, mix the flour and salt. With your hands, toss the butter and cream cheese mixture in the flour mixture until each piece is lightly coated.
With the paddle (I used the dough piece on my food processor), beat on low speed until the dough forms a loose mass around the paddle. [I’m sure you could combine with your hands, but the dough may become too warm. This dough was already softer than any other dough I’d used before– probably the cream cheese is the cause.]
Gently pat the dough into a 1 inch think rectangle on a large sheet of plastic wrap. Wrap it tightly in the plastic wrap and refrigerate until firm, about 3 hours, before rolling. You can refrigerate the dough for up to 1 day, or freeze it for up to three months.
Curried Potatoes and Peas (filling)
6 medium yukon potatoes, peeled
kosher salt
1 tbsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp canola oil
1 ½ cups diced yellow potatoes
½ cup diced carrots
2 tsps curry powder
½ cup frozen peas, thawed
1 cup vegetable stock
[Note: This was FAR too much filling for the samosa recipe. The samosa recipe only calls for 2 cups of this mixture. This makes way more than that– I had a tupperware container with like 4-6 cups left over?]
Place the potatoes in a large pot and add enough cold water to cover the potatoes. Generously salt the water and bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to a simmer and cook until just tender, about twenty minutes. [I cut my potatoes into little squares and the cooking time is far less–maybe 8-10 minutes. I stab them with a fork to see if they’re done. Thus, I skip step 2.]
Drain well, then spread out in a single layer on a cutting board. When cool enough to handle, cut the potatoes into ½ inch chunks.
Heat the butter and oil in a large skillet over medium heat until the butter melts. Add the onions and 1 tsp of salt. Cook, stirring occassionally, until the onions have browned, about 7 minutes. Stir in the carrots and 2 tbsp water and cook, stirring and scraping the pan, until the water evaporates. 
Stir in the curry powder until well mixed. Then add the potatoes, peas, and stock. Cook, stirring to mix, for 2 minutes. Remove from the heat, and serve hot (or cool completely to use as filling for samosas– This is really important. I was in a rush so I couldn’t cool it completely and it started to melt my dough! Plan ahead and take the time so the forming of the samosas goes easier for you than it did for me.)
Samosas
All purpose flour, for rolling
cream cheese dough
2 cups curried potatoes and peas
1 lg egg
1 tbsp water
Preheat the over to 400 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
On a lightly floured surface and using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll the dough into a 20 by 10 inch rectangle. [In my old kitchen, I didn’t have enough counter space to do this. So make as large a rectangle as possible, get as many pieces cut out as you can. Then reform and reroll. Don’t do this unless you have to, since you don’t want to work the dough more than you must.] Cut the rectangle into 8 5 inch squares.
[This step I recommend skipping and just making rectangles, but I’ll include it in case you want to give it a go.] To form a samosa, Fold a dough square diagonally in half and pinch one side to seal it. Hold the resulting cone upright, with the open side up. Use a narrow spoon to scoop and press ¼ cup curried potatoes into the opening, then seal the open side. Set the samosa upright on the baking sheet, like a pyramid. Repeat with the remaining dough and filling, spacing the samosas 2 inches apart.
In a small bowl, beat together the egg and water. Brush the egg wash all over the samosas, being sure to coat the seams. 
Bake until golden brown and heated through, about 30 minutes. Serve hot, warm, or at room temperature. 
