---
layout: post
title: Snap Peas Pasta
date: '2015-03-30T16:01:22-05:00'
tags:
- pastas
- sugar snap peas
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/115058827594/snap-peas-pasta
---
Easy weeknight dinner from Serious Eats. Makes me wish for spring, which STILL hasn’t commenced here! Ugh. Snap peas make me think of wandering through the Dupont Circle farmers market years ago. :)1 pound snap peas, trimmedKosher salt½ teaspoon corn starch½ pound ridged pasta such as cavatappi, penne rigate, or ziti¼ cup extra virgin olive oil4 cloves garlic, finely slicedPinch red pepper flakesFreshly ground black pepper1 tablespoon juice and 1 teaspoon zest from 1 lemon2 tablespoons minced fresh parsley leavesBring a large saucepan of salted water to a boil. Add snap peas and cook until bright green but still crunchy, about 2 minutes. Strain and run under cool water until chilled. Drain and transfer to a small bowl. Toss with corn starch and set aside. [I filled my pot with water for pasta, but when it came to a boil, I added the snap peas instead. I used a strainer scoop to grab the snap peas and drop them into a strainer, then rinsed. Then I added the pasta to the water which was still boiling from when I parboiled the snap peas.]Boil water and add pasta; cook until pasta is barely al dente (follow package instructions for timing). Drain pasta, reserving ½ cup of cooking liquid. Add cooking liquid to bowl with snap peas, stirring to ensure cornstarch is dissolved.Empty saucepan and wipe out with paper towels to dry. Add oil and garlic. Cook over medium high heat, stirring frequently, until garlic starts to take on hints of color around the edges, about 2 minutes. Add pepper flakes and a few good grinds of black pepper followed by snap peas.Bring to a boil, then add drained pasta, lemon juice, and parsley leaves. Toss to combine, Continue cooking, stirring constantly, until sauce is reduced to desired consistency (about 1 minute), season to taste with more salt and pepper if desired, and serve, topping each serving with lemon zest.
