---
layout: post
title: Radish and Edamame Risotto
date: '2015-04-19T16:01:45-05:00'
tags:
- meals
- radish
- edamame
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/116850157228/radish-and-edamame-risotto
---
Our farmers market just started up again outside! EEK! While the produce is still slowly arriving, I snagged some lovely radishes and decided to try this recipe out: via Serious Eats. 4 ½ cups low-sodium vegetable broth [If like me, you don’t want to open another box of broth just to get ½ cup, just use water for that last ½ cup; no big difference.]2 tablespoons unsalted butter1 small yellow onion, diced2 cloves garlic, minced1 cup Arborio rice1 ¼ cups shelled edamame [I used frozen, shelled edamame from Trader Joe’s, but if you have fresh, rock on!]½ cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese1 teaspoon minced fresh thyme¾ teaspoon fine sea saltFreshly ground black pepper1 bunch radishes (about 15), halved lengthwiseHeat the broth in a small pot over the lowest heat setting. Keep warm, but do not allow it to simmer.In a large skillet or stockpot over medium-low heat, melt 1 tablespoon of the butter. Add the onion and sauté until translucent, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and sauté for 1 minute more, stirring frequently to keep garlic from burning. Add the rice and sauté until toasted, 5 minutes, stirring regularly. [I always add a ½ cup of dry white wine (pino grigio, sav blanc) between toasting the rice and adding the broth. If you choose to, let all the wine absorb into the rice before starting on the broth.]Add ½ cup of the broth and stir regularly. When the rice has absorbed most of the broth, add another ½ cup. Continue adding broth until most of it has been absorbed. [If you don’t want to measure, I usually do two ladles worth of broth each time.] When the rice is done, it will be creamy but firm. Add the edamame and stir for 1 minute more. Turn off the heat. Stir in the Parmesan, thyme, ½ teaspoon of the salt, and pepper to taste.Warm a skillet over medium-low heat. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon butter. When the butter is melted, add the radish halves, white sides down, and sauté until the radishes have softened but retain their color, 3 to 4 minutes. Sprinkle with the remaining ¼ teaspoon salt and toss gently.Divide the risotto and top with the radishes. Serve warm.
