---
layout: post
title: 4-Hour Lamb with Provencal French Beans
date: '2015-10-05T18:01:14-05:00'
tags:
- lamb
- beans
- rosemary
- meals
- snacks/sides
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/130578759339/4-hour-lamb-with-provencal-french-beans
---
What a lovely Sunday meal! I let this baby simmer while watching some early season football. Both lamb and beans via Ina Garten, one of my personal cooking heroes. 4-Hour Lamb:1 (6 to 7-pound) leg of lamb (see note)Note: Before you buy the lamb, measure the diameter of your pot. If the lamb is longer than your pot, ask the butcher to cut off the shank end of the lamb and cook both pieces together in the same pot. For two people, 3 lbs was enough for me so I ½-ed the whole recipe. My butcher was kind enough to cut me a 3 lb amount of lamb, so don’t be afraid to ask! I did boneless lamb, but either boned or deboned should work the same. You may choose based on what’s available or more affordable?olive oil1 tablespoon kosher salt2 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper1 (750-ml) bottle dry white wine2 heads of garlic, broken apart but not peeled15 large sprigs fresh rosemary15 large sprigs fresh thyme6 bay leavesPreheat the oven to 300 degrees F.Rub the lamb all over with olive oil and season all over with salt and pepper. Heat a very large Dutch oven such as Le Creuset over medium-high heat until its hot. Add the lamb and sear on all sides for about 12 minutes, until its browned all over. Remove the lamb to a plate.Add the wine and 2 cups of water to the pan and cook for a minute or two, scraping up all the brown bits in the bottom. Add the garlic, rosemary, thyme, and bay leaves and the lamb on top. Place the lid on the pot and bake in the oven for 4 hours, basting occasionally. (If you don’t have a lid, you can cover it tightly with 2 layers of aluminum foil.)After 4 hours, the lamb should be incredibly tender and falling off the bone. Remove the lamb to a plate, cover it tightly with foil and allow it to rest. Strain the sauce into a saucepan and bring to a boil. Lower the heat and simmer for 10 minutes to reduce. The lamb will be too tender to slice; serve it warm with spoons and the sauce.Provencal French Beans:14 ounces dried Great Northern beans1 quart homemade chicken stock or canned broth1 tablespoon kosher salt¼ cup olive oil2 cups chopped yellow onions (2 onions)1 cup medium-diced carrots (2 carrots)1 cup medium-diced celery (2 stalks)¼ cup fresh chopped parsley, plus extra for garnish1 tablespoon minced garlic (3 cloves)2 tablespoons minced fresh rosemary2 tablespoons minced fresh thyme1/3 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheesePlace the beans in a bowl and cover with water. Soak in the refrigerator overnight.Drain the beans, place in a large saucepan with the chicken stock, and bring to a boil. Lower the heat and simmer for 30 to 40 minutes, until tender but not mushy. Add 1 tablespoon of salt for the last 10 minutes of cooking. Drain, reserving the stock.In a large saute pan, heat the olive oil, then add the onions, diced carrots, and celery, and cook over low heat for 10 to 15 minutes, until tender. Add the parsley, garlic, rosemary, and thyme and cook for 1 more minute. Add the beans and 2 cups of the cooking stock. (If you don’t have enough liquid, add additional stock or water to make 2 cups.) Cook for 15 minutes until the stock makes a little sauce, adding more stock if necessary. Finish with the Parmesan cheese. Serve with a garnish of chopped parsley.
