---
layout: post
title: Stuffed Mushroom Rolls
date: '2015-11-05T16:01:16-06:00'
tags:
- baked goodies
- snacks
- mushrooms
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/132623837893/stuffed-mushroom-rolls
---
This is a great appetizer, especially to bring to a party! You can use store bought pizza dough, or make your own, and it’s relatively easy to do! Via Shutterbean (and I’ll include my homemade pizza dough recipe from Curtis Stone’s What’s For Dinner?). 1 pound pizza dough8 oz. sliced crimini mushrooms (about 3 cups)6 sprigs fresh thyme3 cloves chopped garlic1 cup freshly grated Parmesan, divided2 tablespoons butter, divided3 tablespoons chopped Italian parsley1 tablespoon olive oilPreheat oven to 450F. Spray a 12-cup muffin tin with cooking spray and set aside.  Place pizza dough on flour lined work surface and cut into 12 pieces.Heat a cast iron skillet over medium high heat and place mushrooms in pan until they start to soften, about 5 minutes. Stir in one tablespoon butter and chopped garlic. Pull the leaves from thyme sprigs and stir them into the mushroom mixture. Cook for another 2-3 minutes until garlic is softened. Season with salt and pepper and stir in ½ cup grated Parmesan cheese and two tablespoons chopped parsley. [You might add the cheese to the mushroom mixture in a separate container because it will MELT INSTANTLY in the hot pan.]Grab a piece of pizza dough, flatten slightly in your hand and spoon about a tablespoon of the mushroom mixture into the center of the dough. Fold over the sides and place each stuffed dough piece into the prepared muffin tin.  [There’s no “correct” way to roll these rolls. I sort of just pinched the edges together. The original recipe shows the creator sort of rolling the rolls and closing them in that way.]Melt remaining tablespoon of butter in a small bowl. Brush the tops of each dough roll with a pastry brush and sprinkle 1-2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese onto the tops.  Place muffin tin in the oven and bake until rolls are golden and brown, about 15-18 minutes. To serve, drizzle hot rolls with olive oil and sprinkle remaining chopped parsley on top.Homemade Pizza Dough (makes 2 balls of dough)1 ¼ cup lukewarm water (110-115 degrees F– but I just feel it out)2 teaspoons honey1 packet (or 2 ¼ tsps) active dry yeast3 cups unbleached all purpose flour, plus more for dusting1 tsp fine sea salt1 tbsp olive oilIn a small bowl, whisk lukewarm water, honey, and yeast to blend. Set aside for about 5 minutes, or until foamy. Stir to dissolve the yeast.In a food processor, pulse the flour and salt to combine. With the machine running, pour in the yeast mixture and olive oil and process until dough forms a ball. Transfer the dough to a work surface and knead for about 3 minutes, or until it is smooth and elastic. Do not add too much flour. The dough will be tacky but it should release cleanly from your hands.Divide the dough in half and gently form each half into a ball. Place on a floured rimmed baking sheet, and dust the tops with flour. Cover with plastic wrap. Let stand in a warm, draft free place for about 45 minutes, or until the dough doubles in volume. 
