---
layout: post
title: Hoppin John
date: '2015-05-29T16:01:26-05:00'
tags:
- beans
- meals
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/120212280148/hoppin-john
---
Every good Southerner should be acquainted with Hoppin John! It’s often associated with New Years, as eating black eyed peas for New Years brings good luck. I recently had a delicious plate of them at a local restaurant, so I needed to try them myself! Via Thug Kitchen. 1 ½ cups dried black-eyed peas2 teaspoons olive oil1 yellow onion2 bell peppers (I used red and green but use whateverthefuck you like)3 ribs of celery2-3 chipotle peppers in adobo sauce (these smoked peppers come packed in sauce and are sold in a tiny can at most stores near the salsa and beans. Trust me, it’s there, just fucking look.) [I used 2 with the seeds.]2-3 cloves of garlic1 teaspoon dried thyme½ teaspoon dried oregano½ teaspoon paprika¼ teaspoon ground black pepper2 bay leaves¼ teaspoon salt3 cups of vegetable brothRinse the black-eyed peas and throw out any grit or fucked up looking peas. Put the peas in a medium container and cover them with a couple inches of water. Let them soak overnight or for at least 6 hours. After they have soaked, drain the peas and start fucking cooking.Chop up the onion, bell peppers, and celery. In a large pot, warm up the olive oil over a medium heat. Add the onion and saute that shit until it starts to brown in some places, about 5 minutes. Add the bell peppers and celery and cook until they get a little soft, about 3 minutes. Take the chipotle peppers out of the can, cut them open and scrape out the seeds. These little bastards can be spicy, so taking out the seeds helps you keep that heat wherever the fuck you like it. If you prefer it hot then keep some of the seeds in. Keep all of the seeds if you want, I really don’t give a fuck. Chop up the chipotles and dice up the garlic real fine. Add both to the pot and stir all that shit up. Add the thyme, oregano, paprika, black pepper, bay leaves, and salt and cook for 30 seconds. Toss in the drained black-eyed peas and the broth and bring that shit to a simmer.Let it simmer uncovered until the peas are tender. This can take anywhere from 30 minutes to an hour depending on how long you soaked your peas and how old they are. If you start running out of broth before those are ready, add a little more broth or water. If the peas are tender and you’ve still got too much broth in there, just drain some of that shit off. Not a big fucking deal. Just check the seasoning when you are all done and add more herbs or spices if you think it needs it. [Mine took about 40 minutes and I added maybe a ¼ cup more broth in the whole cooking time.]Serve this seasonal standard over your favorite kind of rice, topped with some green onions, and with a side out sauteed greens for extra luck or some superstitious shit like that. I used long brown rice and some kale for greens but whateverthefuck you got is fine. You can even use a vinegar based hot sauce (like Tabasco) on that shit and take it to another level.  
