---
layout: post
title: Chicken with Tomatoes and Capers and Rustic Bread Pudding
date: '2015-10-03T16:00:50-05:00'
tags:
- chicken
- tomatoes
- capers
- bread
- bread pudding
- meals
- snacks/sides
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/130426510925/chicken-with-tomatoes-and-capers-and-rustic-bread
---
Easy weeknight recipes and each stands alone as well as mixes with other recipes well. Chicken recipe via NYT and bread pudding via Cook’s Illustrated.Chicken Breasts with Tomatoes and Capers:4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts, about 2 ¼ pounds Salt and pepper to taste2 tablespoons olive oil2 tablespoons butter6 tablespoons finely chopped shallots2 teaspoons finely chopped garlic4 teaspoons finely chopped fresh tarragon or 2 teaspoon dried8 ripe plum tomatoes cut into small cubes (or one 28-ounce can of tomatoes, drained and chopped)¼ cup red wine vinegar¼ cup drained capers1 cup dry white wine2 tablespoons tomato paste¼ cup chopped fresh parsley leavesSprinkle the chicken with salt and pepper.Heat the oil and butter in a heavy-bottom skillet. Add the chicken breasts and saute over medium-high heat, turning the pieces often until lightly browned, about 5 minutes.Add the shallots and garlic around the chicken. Cook briefly; add the tarragon, tomatoes, vinegar, capers, wine and tomato paste. Stir to dissolve the brown particles adhering to the bottom of the skillet.Blend well; bring to a boil; cover and simmer for 9 minutes. Sprinkle with parsley and serve.Rustic Bread Pudding:NOTE: For two people, ¼ of this recipe was enough for a side. Also, feel free to exchange the herbs for what you have at the time. I did rosemary and parsley. 3 tablespoons unsalted butter2 baguettes (10 ounces each), bottom crust and ends trimmed and discarded3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil2 cups chicken broth2 large onions, cut into ½-inch pieces3 celery ribs, cut into ½-inch pieces¾ teaspoon salt¼ teaspoon pepper3 tablespoons chopped fresh sage3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsleyAdjust oven rack to upper-middle position and heat oven to 450 degrees. Grease 9- by 13-inch baking dish with 1 tablespoon butter and set aside. Tear bread into bite-size pieces (you should have about 12 cups) and spread into even layer on rimmed baking sheet. Drizzle evenly with oil, and toss with spatula until oil is well distributed. Toast in oven for 5 minutes. Stir bread, and continue to toast until edges are lightly browned and crisped, about 5 minutes longer. Transfer baking sheet to wire rack. Drizzle broth evenly over bread, and stir to combine.Melt remaining 2 tablespoons butter in 10-inch skillet over medium heat. Add onions, celery, salt, and pepper. Cook, stirring frequently, until vegetables are softened but not browned, 8 to 10 minutes. Add sage and cook 1 minute until fragrant.Add vegetables to bread and toss with spatula until well combined. Transfer to mixture to prepared baking dish and spread into even layer. Bake for 20 minutes. Stir with spatula, turning crisp edges into middle, and spread into even layer. Continue to bake until top is crisp and brown, about 10 minutes longer. Stir in parsley, and serve.
