---
layout: post
title: Red Curry Mussels
date: '2015-08-16T14:01:39-05:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/126846348487/red-curry-mussels
---
Despite having grown up near a coast and eaten seafood all my life, I find the idea of cooking seafood at home, especially now that I live in a land-locked stated, terrifying. Nonetheless, I’m happy to say that mussels were incredibly easy and relatively cheap (1 LB= 8ish dollars). Most places will clean and debeard them for you, but always make sure to ask if they do, since that step can be a lot trickier. Via Bon Appetit. Note: I bought 1 ½ lbs mussels to feed 2 people as a meal, and it was plenty. Assume some won’t open.1 13.5-oz. can coconut milk1 cup canned crushed tomatoes½ cup dry white wine1 tablespoon Thai red curry paste4 tablespoons chopped fresh basil, divided½ medium red onion, thinly sliced1 carrot, peeled, julienned1 celery stalk, thinly sliced on a diagonalKosher salt and freshly ground black pepper2 pounds mussels, scrubbed, debearded2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsleyToasted country-style bread (for serving) [So necessary to soak up the delicious sauce!]Bring coconut milk, tomatoes, wine, curry paste, and 2 Tbsp. basil to a boil in a Dutch oven or other large pot, stirring to incorporate curry paste. Reduce heat and add onion, carrot, and celery; season with salt and pepper.Bring liquid to a simmer, cover pot, and cook until vegetables are crisp-tender, about 4 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer vegetables to a medium bowl and set aside.Return liquid in pot to a simmer. Add mussels to pot, cover, and cook, shaking pot occasionally, until shells open (discard any mussels that do not open), about 4 minutes. [I cooked mine a few minutes longer for fear of them not being ready. Look at how many have opened and you can determine if you want to give it a couple more minutes.]Divide mussels and cooking liquid among bowls, top with reserved vegetables, parsley, and remaining 2 Tbsp. basil, and serve with bread alongside.
