---
layout: post
title: Wild Rice Soup
date: '2015-10-07T17:01:24-05:00'
tags:
- soups/stews
- mushrooms
- wild rice
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/130708338675/wild-rice-soup
---
This was a really tasty soup! However, I’m not sure if it’s because I used a wild rice blend rather than Minnesota wild rice, but I found my soup remained thinner than I would have liked. Therefore, I would consider reducing the liquid in the recipe I made it again–maybe by 1/3? Via The Kitchn. 1 cup wild rice1 large yellow onion, diced4 celery stalks, diced1 pound mushrooms, diced2 cloves garlic, minced1 teaspoon fresh oregano3 tablespoons all-purpose flour1 cup white wine1 bay leaf1 or 2 leftover cheese rinds, optional, for deeper flavor4 cups vegetable or chicken stock2 teaspoons minced fresh rosemary1 cup whole milk or heavy cream1 tablespoon cider vinegar2 teaspoons salt, dividedNOTE: As I wrote above, I could consider reducing the liquid in this recipe if you want a thicker soup.Bring a pot of water to a boil. Add the wild rice and one teaspoon of salt, and reduce to a simmer. Cook for 40 to 50 minutes, until the rice has burst open and tastes tender. Drain, reserving the cooking liquid to use as stock, if desired.While the rice cooks, prepare the rest of the soup. Warm a teaspoon of oil in a Dutch oven or stock pot over medium-high heat. Add the onions and celery with a half teaspoon of salt, and cook until the onions have softened and turned translucent, 3 to 5 minutes. Turn the heat down to medium and stir in the mushrooms and another half teaspoon of salt. Cook until the mushrooms have released all their liquid and turned dark golden-brown, 15 to 20 minutes. Don’t skimp on this step! This is where the soup gets its deep, rich flavor.Add the garlic and oregano, and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Sprinkle the flour over the veggies and stir until the vegetables become sticky and there is no more visibly dry flour. Increase the heat again to medium-high and pour in the wine. Stir and scrape the brown bits from the bottom of the pan. Continue simmering until the wine has reduced by about half and the liquid has thickened a bit.Add the bay leaf, cheese rinds (if using), and stock. Bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. Simmer for 20 minutes to meld the flavors. Add the rosemary, milk, and cooked wild rice. Simmer for another 10 to 15 minutes, until the soup has thickened to your liking. Stir in the cider vinegar. Taste and add more salt or vinegar to taste.
