---
layout: post
title: Cherry Tomato Galette
date: '2015-09-25T17:01:25-05:00'
tags:
- cherry tomato
- tomato
- galette
- meals
- baked goodies
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/129871809882/cherry-tomato-galette
---
If you’re a nerd and read food blogs (LIKE ME), you will have been bombarded with both sweet and savory galette recipes. I’m like, what’s the big deal? So I finally submitted and made one of these rustic tarts with all the tiny cherry tomatoes my garden is producing. And yes, I’ve been converted and will be making more galettes. Via PBS Food.For the Pastry:1 ¼ cup unbleached white flour chilled in the freezer for 15 minutes ¼ tsp. salt8 tbsp. (½ cup) cold unsalted butter¼ cup full-fat yoghurt (if liquidy, drain it first so it is thick and creamy) or sour cream2 tsp. fresh lemon juice¼ cup ice waterFor the Filling:½ cup ricotta cheese½ cup grated parmesanAbout 1 pound of cherry tomatoes, halved1 tbsp. olive oilFreshly minced basil for garnish (4 or 5 basil leaves)Salt and pepper, to tasteFor the Glaze:1 egg yolk1 tsp. waterFirst, make sure your flour and butter are chilled. In a medium mixing bowl, mix the flour and salt together, then cut the butter into the flour with a pastry blender, a food processor, or two knifes, until the butter is evenly distributed with the largest chunks about the size of peas (these chunks of butter are what will give your crust its delightful flakiness). In a small bowl, mix together the ice cold water, cold yoghurt, and 2 teaspoons of lemon juice. Pour this mixture into the flour. With a wooden spoon, gently mix together, just until you can get it into a ball. It doesn’t have to be perfectly mixed, you want to avoid overworking the dough. Flatten the ball into a disc and wrap in plastic or parchment paper and chill in the fridge for at least 1 hour.On a floured surface, using a floured rolling pin, roll the chilled dough into a large round about 12 to 14 inches wide and between 1/8 to ¼ inch thick. Place the rolled-out dough on a piece of parchment paper on a large baking sheet. (You may find it easier to handle the dough if you roll it out directly onto the floured piece of parchment paper). [Note: I found my dough to be cracking more than I’m used to with dough, but since it’s a rustic dish, the edges can be a bit frayed.]In a small bowl, mix the ricotta and grated parmesan together. Crumble and spread this mixture onto your dough, leaving a 2-inch border all around. Place your halved tomatoes, cut-side up, tightly together to fill the circle, leaving the 2-inch border intact. Fold the border edges of the dough inwards so that the tomatoes are encased by dough around the edges but exposed in the center. [If you’re unsure how to fold the dough of your galette, this video will help–or at least it helped me!]Brush the edges with the egg yolk glaze. Season with salt and pepper if you wish and drizzle the olive oil on top of the tomatoes.Bake in a 375 F oven for about 45 minutes or until crust is golden.Remove from the oven, let it cool for a few minutes before sprinkling shredded basil on top. Slice and serve.
