---
layout: post
title: Lemon Coconut Layer Cake
date: '2015-09-29T14:01:18-05:00'
tags:
- coconut
- lemon
- lemon curd
- cake
- buttercream
- vanilla
- baked goodies
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/130147083095/lemon-coconut-layer-cake
---
This delicious treat celebrated my friend’s academic successes! And what a lovely treat it was. I halved the recipe and made just a two layer cake, but otherwise, who could want more than lemon curd AND coconut? Via Feast Magazine. Cake (Yields 2 8-inch cakes)3 2⁄3 cups unbleached all-purpose flour1 Tbsp baking powder6 eggs1 tsp kosher salt2¾ cups granulated sugar1 vanilla bean, split and scraped [I substituted 1 tsp vanilla.]1½ cup canola oil1½ cup buttermilk, dividedAmerican Buttercream1 cup room temperature unsalted butter1 lb powdered sugar¼ tsp kosher salt½ tsp vanilla extract1⁄8 to ¼ cup whole milkAssembly2¼ cups lemon curd, divided [I used this amazing lemon curd recipe.]3 cups sweetened coconut flakes| Preparation – Cake | Preheat oven to 375°F. Prepare 2 8-inch cake pans by lining the bottoms with parchment paper; do not spray the sides. Sift flour and baking powder twice and set aside.Using a stand mixer fitted with the whip attachment, whip eggs, salt, sugar and vanilla bean on high for 5 minutes. On medium speed, slowly drizzle in oil until fully incorporated. On low speed, begin adding 1⁄3 of dry ingredients, alternating with ½ of buttermilk, repeat and finish with remaining dry. Scrape well to make sure there are no lumps and batter is evenly combined. Divide batter evenly between 2 pans and bake for 50 to 60 minutes. The cakes will be a medium golden brown and the centers will spring back when lightly pressed if finished. Cool completely in the pans and run a knife carefully around the edge to remove.| Preparation – American Buttercream |Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream butter, sugar, salt and vanilla on medium for 1 minute until light and fluffy. Add 1⁄8 cup milk on medium and then beat on high, 2 minutes. Adjust consistency with milk as needed. Buttercream should be soft and creamy.| Assembly | Using a serrated knife, carefully remove domed top of each cake and discard. Cut each cake in half horizontally to create 4 cake layers. Place bottom layer onto a cake plate, “gluing” it down with a dab of buttercream. Top with ¾ cup lemon curd, spreading evenly to coat. Add next 2 layers in the same manner, saving other bottom layer to invert on top of cake. Using a spatula, spread a thin layer of buttercream over the sides, edges and top of cake. Chill for 1 hour or up to 1 day to set. Once cake is set, spread another ¼-inch layer buttercream over entire cake. Coat cake in coconut flakes, pressing lightly, and dust the excess off plate. Chill to set. Cake will keep in the refrigerator for 3 days, but is best after being at room temperature for 2 to 4 hours.NOTE: I skipped steps 5-7. I just iced the whole cake, added the coconut, then served it. If you have the time, go through the steps, but realize you can always cut corners… :D
