---
layout: post
title: No Knead Challah Cinnamon Rolls
date: '2015-10-23T17:01:16-05:00'
tags:
- bread
- baked
- cinnamon
- glaze
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/131771769234/no-knead-challah-cinnamon-rolls
---
I’m not gonna lie. While making these, I thought to myself– I’m done. This isn’t going to work. Mainly because after experimenting with bread the last couple months, I’ve become used to seeing a certain rise in the dough over time, and this dough didn’t seem to rise enough! However, I was really happy with how they came out. The recipe’s author said you mostly can’t mess these up, and I now believe that’s true! Be forewarned that this is a two-day sort of recipe, so plan ahead. Via Apt 2B Baking Co. (makes about 12 rolls)Dough4 cups bread flour (I used all purpose and I found the texture to be good, if you don’t want to go out and buy bread flour)1 ½ teaspoons instant dry yeast2 teaspoons fine sea salt (or kosher or table …)2 large eggs plus 1 large egg yolk ¾ cup water1/3 cup olive oil¼ cup honeyFilling6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted1/3 cup granulated sugar2 tablespoons ground cinnamonpinch saltGlaze2 cups confectioner’s (powdered) sugar ¼ cup sour cream1 teaspoon vanilla extractpinch saltWhisk together the dry ingredients in a large bowl, and the wet ingredients in a smaller bowl. Dump the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and stir with a rubber spatula until a wet, sticky dough forms. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let sit for 10 minutes. [For me, I almost always see that you dissolve the yeast in the liquid ingredients, instead of keeping it with the dry. For my mind’s ease, I may do this next time, but it seems optional. Similarly, with most breads, the recipe calls for lukewarm water. This recipe doesn’t clarify. So I would use lukewarm water, dissolve the yeast in it for about 3-5 minutes, then add the wet ingredients to the dry.]Peel back the plastic. Grab an edge of the dough, lift it up, and fold it over itself to the center. Turn the bowl a bit and repeat around the entire lump of dough, grabbing an edge and folding it into the center, eight turns, grabs, and folds in all. Then flip the dough so that the folds and seams are on the bottom. Cover tightly again with the plastic, and let sit for 30 minutes.Repeat the all-around folding, flipping, covering, and resting four more times. (I keep track by drawing hash marks in permanent marker right on the plastic. NOTE that this takes 2 ½ hours.) The dough ﬂops more than it folds in the first round or two. Then, as the gluten develops, you’ll get proper folds. By the final fold, the dough will be wonderfully elastic, and you’ll be able to see and feel the small pockets of air within. Pull the plastic tight again over the bowl and refrigerate for 16 to 24 hours—any longer and you risk over-proofing.The next morning, make the cinnamon rolls. Grease a 9 x 13-inch baking dish.Stir the sugar, cinnamon, and salt together in a small bowl. On a lightly floured surface roll the dough into a rectangle about 18 x 12 x ½-inch thick . Brush the melted butter over the top, then sprinkle with the cinnamon sugar. [She doesn’t clarify this, but I learned that you may want to keep about ½ inch from the end free of your cinnamon mixture, so when you roll the dough, it can stick shut. Mine still worked, but it may help…] Starting from the long end, tightly roll the dough into a log. Slice the log into 12 pieces and arrange them in the baking dish. Cover the dish with a towel and let the rolls rise until puffy and almost doubled in size, about 2 hours.Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 350ºF. Bake the rolls until golden and cooked through, about 25-30 minutes.While the rolls are cooling, make the glaze by whisking all of the glaze ingredients together. It should be thick but pourable, if it’s too thick add a bit of milk, if it is too thin add a bit of confectioner’s sugar. [Mine wasn’t pourable and needed just a little milk to loosen it.]Drizzle the glaze over the warm cinnamon rolls and enjoy immediately.Pre-glazed, baked cinnamon rolls!
