---
layout: post
title: Bourbon and Brown Sugar Peach Pie
date: '2015-08-15T14:01:30-05:00'
tags:
- baked goodies
- desserts
- peach
- Bourbon
- pie
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/126765700954/bourbon-and-brown-sugar-peach-pie
---
A really lovely season pie and my first attempt at a lattice top pie! Via Hummingbird High. For the All-Butter Pie Crust:(makes one 9-inch lattice pie)2 ½ cups all-purpose flour1 tablespoon granulated sugar1 teaspoon kosher salt1 cup (2 sticks) cold unsalted butter, cut into ½-inch pieces1 cup cold water¼ cup apple cider vinegar1 cup iceFor the Bourbon and Brown Sugar Peach Filling:(makes enough for one 9-inch lattice pie)1 pound fresh, super-ripe peaches (enough for around 1 ½ to 2 cups sliced), sliced into ½ and 1-inch chunks3 tablespoon cornstarch1 ½ “heaping” tablespoons dark brown sugar1 tablespoon bourbona generous pinch of kosher salt1 large egg1 teaspoon watergranulated sugar, for sprinklingFor the All-Butter Pie Crust:In a medium bowl, stir together 2 ¼ cups all-purpose flour, 1 tablespoon granulated sugar, and 1 teaspoon kosher salt. Add 1 cup cold unsalted butter pieces and coat with the flour mixture using a bench scraper or a spatula. With a pastry blender, cut the butter into the flour mixture, working quickly until pea-size pieces of butter remain (a few larger pieces are okay — be careful not to overblend). [I did this mixing in my food processor.]In a liquid measuring bowl, whisk together ½ cup cold water, ¼ cup apple cider vinegar, and ½ cup ice. Sprinkle 2 tablespoons if the ice water mixture over the flour mixture (from the first step), continuing to use the pastry blender to cut the water into the mixture until it is fully incorporated. Add more of the ice water mixture, 1 tablespoon at a time, using your hans to mix until the dough comes together in a ball with some dry bits remaining. [You will NOT use all the liquid. Just use enough till your dough comes together.] Squeeze and pinch with your fingertips to bring all the dough together, and, if necessary, sprinkle any dry bits with small drops of ice water to combine. [With all the butter in this dough, it was a loft softer than doughs I’m used to working with– so don’t worry. Just make sure it isn’t sticky at all before you put it away.]Divide the dough into two equal portions. Shape one portion into a rough disc, and the other into a rough rectangle. Wrap both in plastic, and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, preferably overnight, to give the crust time to mellow. Wrapped tightly, the dough can be refrigerated for 3 days or frozen for 1 month.Once the dough has chilled overnight and has the texture and consistency of saltwater taffy, it’s ready to be rolled. Liberally sprinkle a work surface with flour (see baker’s notes). Unwrap the circular portion of dough (but keep the rectangular portion in the fridge!) and place it on the work surface, sprinkling its top with flour. If the dough is hard, let it rest for a few minutes. [I took them both out to let them thaw, which toke some time before it was warm enough to roll.] If the dough seems too sticky at first, add flour liberally. Use a rolling pin to roll with light pressure, from the center out, moving the pie dough around every quarter to roll it evenly. Roll the the dough to about 11 to 12 inches in diameter and about ¼ inch thick (place your pie plate upside down over it to check its size).Move the dough into the pie plate by folding it into quarters, then moving it into the plate and unfolding it. When the dough is in the plate, press it firmly into the bottom and sides of the plate. Use kitchen shears to trim the excess dough, leaving about ¼-inch overhang over the pie plate’s rim. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and place in the coldest part of the refrigerator while you roll out the second portion of dough.Re-flour your surface and roll the second disc of dough into a rough 10- by 15-inch rectangle. Use a pastry wheel or sharp paring knife to cut several 2-inch strips. Transfer the strips to a parchment lined sheet pan, loosely covering with plastic wrap, and place in the freezer while you make the pie filling. [I found two inches too thick! The strips on my pie are one inch, since when I cut the two inch strips with a paring knife, I cut them in half longways, when I found them too thick.]For the Bourbon and Brown Sugar Peach Pie Filling and the Lattice TopIn a medium bowl, toss together 1 pound peach chunks, 3 tablespoons cornstarch, 1 ½ heaping tablespoons dark brown sugar, 1 tablespoon bourbon, and a generous pinch of kosher salt until well combined.Use a spoon to transfer the pie filling into the cold pie crust base, spreading the filling evenly across the base. It’s important that you make the filling to be as even and flat as possible — the more even it is, the prettier your lattice will be.Once you’ve spread and flattened out the peach filling, use the chilled strips to weave a lattice top (check out this awesome Food52 video for visual instructions!). [No really, that Food52 video was ESSENTIAL viewing.] Use kitchen shears to shorten and fit the strips onto the pie, before using a fork to crimp the base and the strips onto the base.Cover loosely with plastic wrap and transfer to the freezer to chill for 1 hour before baking.Baking the PieCenter a rack in the oven and preheat  to 350 (F). Line a baking sheet big enough to hold the pie tin with parchment paper.When the oven is preheated, make the eggwash by whisking together 1 large egg with 1 teaspoon water. Use a pastry brush to brush the egg wash onto the lattice top and border of the pie crust base, sprinkling granulated sugar over the eggwash. Place on the prepared baking sheet and immediately transfer to the preheated oven. Bake for 45 to 55 minutes, until the pie is golden brown and the filling is bubbling. If the edges brown too quickly, cover with a loose sheet of foil.Cool on a wire rack for 35 to 45 minutes before serving warm, with a dollop of cold whipped cream or ice cream.
