---
layout: post
title: Shepherds Pie
date: '2015-03-06T16:01:11-06:00'
tags:
- meals
- sweet potato
- lamb
- peas
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/112911361739/shepherds-pie
---
DELISH. Fun because it’s got a sweet potato topping. Pretty easy, if a little time intensive. From Spoon Fork Bacon. 2 large sweet potatoes, peeled and chopped½ cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened2 ounces shredded Havarti (about 1 cup loosely packed)1 medium egg, lightly beatensalt and pepper to tastefilling:3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, divided1 ½ lbs. (24 ounces) ground lamb1 large shallot, diced1 medium turnip, peeled and diced2 garlic cloves, minced2 ½ teaspoons minced tarragon2 teaspoons minced thyme1 ½ tablespoons tomato paste2 tablespoons all purpose flour2 ears fresh corn kernels2/3 cup frozen peas, thawed2/3 cup vegetable stocksalt and pepper to tastePreheat oven to 375˚F.For mashed sweet potatoes: Place potatoes into a medium pot, fill with water and bring to a boil. Boil potatoes until fork tender, about 15 minutes. Drain potatoes into a colander and return back to the pot. Add butter, season with salt and pepper and mash with a potato masher, until smooth and creamy. Fold in the Havarti until just combined and adjust seasonings. Cover and set aside.For filling: Pour 1 tablespoon oil into a large skillet and place over medium-high heat. Add ground lamb and season with salt and pepper. Sauté lamb for 4 to 5 minutes or until just browned. Transfer meat into a mixing bowl and drain excess liquid and grease.Pour remaining oil into the skillet and sauté turnip over medium-high heat for 4 to 5 minutes. Add shallots and garlic and continue to sauté for 2 minutes. Season with salt and pepper.Return ground lamb to the skillet with herbs and tomato paste and stir mixture together. Until well combined.Lower heat to medium-low and sprinkle flour over mixture and continue to stir together. Add vegetable stock, stir and allow mixture to slightly thicken. Fold in corn and peas and adjust seasonings.To assemble: Whisk egg into the mashed and slightly cooled sweet potatoes until fully combined and mixture is light and creamy. Pour filling into a 9”x13” baking dish, in an even layer. Top with mashed sweet potatoes, smooth the top and bake for 25 to 30 minutes.Place pie under broiler for 3 to 4 minutes or until lightly browned. Allow Shepard’s pie to cool for 10 minutes before serving.
