---
layout: post
title: Beef Shepherd’s Pie
date: '2015-11-21T16:01:13-06:00'
tags:
- meals
- ground beef
- mashed potatoes
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/133681032095/beef-shepherds-pie
---
Mmmm. Solid use for ground beef. Via Food Network. 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil3 tablespoons unsalted butter1 medium onion, diced3 medium carrots, peeled and sliced1 rib celery, sliced½ pound cremini mushrooms, quartered2 cloves garlic, minced1 tablespoon kosher salt¾ teaspoon dried oregano3 tablespoons tomato paste1 pound ground beef¼ cup canned low sodium beef broth½ teaspoon Worcestershire sauceFreshly ground black pepper4 cups Mashed Potatoes, recipe follows¼ cup grated Parmesan, optionalPreheat oven to 375 degrees F.Heat the olive oil and 2 tablespoons of the butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the onion, carrots, celery, mushrooms, garlic, half the salt, and oregano. Cook until vegetables are tender, about 10 minutes. Stir in the tomato paste and cook until mushrooms are soft and tomato paste has turned brick red, about 8 minutes more. Stir in the beef, the broth, the remaining salt, the Worcestershire, and some pepper, breaking up any large clumps of meat, cook until the meat is no longer pink, about 3 minutes.Transfer the meat and vegetables to a 2-quart oval casserole dish and spread the mashed potatoes over the top, leaving a ¼-inch boarder around the edge. Make a decorative pattern on the top of the potatoes, if desired. Sprinkle with cheese, if using, and dot with the remaining tablespoon of butter. Bake until potatoes brown and the juices bubble around the edge, about 40 minutes. Let cool for 10 minutes before serving.Mashed Potatoes:1 ½ pounds russet potatoes, peeled quartered2 teaspoons kosher salt, plus more for seasoning¾ cup whole milk6 tablespoons unsalted butter2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsleyFreshly ground black pepperPut the potatoes in a saucepan with cold water to cover by about 1-inch and add the salt. Bring to a simmer over medium-high heat, uncovered, until the potatoes are tender but not mushy, about 15 minutes. At the same time, combine the milk and butter in a small saucepan and warm over low heat until the butter is melted. Remove from the heat and cover to keep warm.Drain the potatoes and return to the saucepan. Toss the potatoes over medium heat until dry. Add the heated milk mixture (until the texture you like) and mash the potatoes until just slightly chunky, then stir in the parsley and season with salt and pepper, to taste.
