---
layout: post
title: Strawberry Cream Scones
date: '2015-04-27T16:01:10-05:00'
tags:
- baked goodies
- strawberries
- scones
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/117545043174/strawberry-cream-scones
---
Cute tiny scones! Via Joy the BakerWith this recipe, you want to be careful not to overwork the scones, because then the fresh strawberries start to smash and make the dough wet and unmanageable. Also, I needed a bit more cream to make my dough come together (maybe 1 tbsp more than she recommends)? I didn’t have a small cutter to make the tiny scones, but since I was bringing them to class for people to share, and thus wanted two bite scones, I used the top of my cream bottle to trace circles in the dough, then used a knife to cut out the scones. Worked well, but a bit of a pain! Lastly, I had to cook my scones a few minutes longer than she recommends to get a golden brown top– maybe 3 minutes more? Each oven differs.3 cups all-purpose flour1 tablespoon baking powder1 teaspoon salt1/3 cup granulated sugar1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract1 1/3 to 1 ½ cups heavy cream plus more for brushing the top¾ cup coarsely chopped fresh strawberries1/3 cup chopped white chocolate (optional)turbinado sugar for topping [I used regular, white sugar.]Place a rack in the upper third of the oven and preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with a Silpat or parchment paper and set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk together flour, backing powder, salt, and sugar. Set aside.In a liquid measuring cup mix together vanilla extract and 1 1/3 cups cream. Drizzle the cream mixture into the dry ingredients tossing and stirring as you pour in the cream.  Add the strawberry chunks and white chocolate chunks (if using). Toss together. [Note: was a bit hard to mix, but just try to do as softly as possible with wooden spoon and appreciate strawberries and dough will come together more when you lightly knead it in a few steps.] Add 2 more tablespoons of cream if necessary to create a moist, cohesive, but not sticky dough. [I needed the 2 tbsp and then some.]Dump the dough onto a lightly floured work surface.  Gently gather and knead the dough into a dish and press the disk out into a 3/4″-thickness.Use a small biscuit cutter to cut small 1 ¼-inch circles from the dough disk.  Brush each circle with heave cream and sprinkle generously with turbinado sugar.Place 1-inch apart on the prepared baking sheet and bake for 12 to 14 minutes or until golden brown and cooked through.
