---
layout: post
title: Pumpkin Curry with Crispy Spice Crusted Tofu
date: '2016-02-16T16:00:49-06:00'
tags:
- Pumpkin
- meals
- curry
- Tofu
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/139444590729/pumpkin-curry-with-crispy-spice-crusted-tofu
---
This is a recipe that I thought: eh, this will be good. But I was shocked at just HOW DELICIOUS it was. Definitely remake material. Via The Pig & Quill.For the Tofu1 block (14-16 oz) super firm tofu, cut into 1" cubes4 tbsp olive oil1 tbsp honey or maple syrup1.5 tsp ground coriander1 tsp garlic powder1 tsp smoked paprika1 tsp sea salt1 tsp cumin½ tsp cinnamonFor the Curry2 tsp ground cumin2 tsp curry powder1 tsp ground coriander1 tsp fennel seed1 tsp onion powder¼ tsp red chili flakes½ tsp ground cinnamon1 heaping cup canned or pureed pumpkin1 can full fat coconut milk3 cloves garlic, roughly chopped½ cup apple cider (or veggie stock)1.5 T maple syrup½ tsp salt2 tbsp light cooking oil2 carrots, chopped1 bulb fennel, quartered, cored and very thinly sliced1 medium zucchini, halved lengthwise and sliced into half-moons1 cup frozen peashandful basil, torn or finely shreddedcrushed peanuts, for servingcooked rice or quinoa, for servingTo make the tofu: Preheat broiler. Line a rimmed baking sheet with foil. In a large bowl, combine olive oil with honey or maple syrup and all spices. Add cubed tofu and gently toss to combine. Arrange tofu in a single layer on baking sheet and broil for 10 mins or until tofu is browned and crispy on top. Gently toss and broil an additional 10 mins. Allow to cool slightly.To make curry: While tofu broils, add all curry spices (cumin through cinnamon) to a large, dry skillet and toast until fragrant and slightly nutty.Add toasted spices to a blender and add pumpkin, coconut milk, garlic, apple cider, maple syrup and salt and blend until smooth. Set aside. [This was so weird to me, but fantastic! There’s so little cooking involved!]To same skillet used to toast the spices, add cooking oil and heat over med-high flame. Add carrots, fennel and zucchini and stir-fry until crisp-tender, 3-5 mins. Add blended curry mixture and peas and cook until heated through, about 5 mins.Serve curried veggies over rice or quinoa topped with broiled tofu, basil and peanuts. Enjoy!NOTES: This veggie curry comes together quickly with a flavor that is so much more interesting than jarred curry sauces. Feel free to make it your own with whatever veggies you have on hand. And don’t fret if you don’t happen to have apple cider. Veggie stock works just as well, though the curry will lean ever so slightly toward the savory side.
