---
layout: post
title: Breakfast Sandwiches
date: '2016-01-18T16:01:13-06:00'
tags:
- breakfast
- eggs
- bacon
- cheese
- meals
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/137577201402/breakfast-sandwiches
---
I’m trying to plan ahead for a busy semester by making food that can easily be frozen and packed up for school! I wrapped up these sandwiches in aluminum foil and can throw them into the microwave on campus. Via The Kitchn.Makes 6 sandwichesIngredients10 large eggs1 cup whole milk1 teaspoon kosher salt6 slices bacon (optional)6 slices cheese, like cheddar, Monterey jack, or Swiss6 English muffinsHeat the oven to 375°F: Place one rack in the lower third and another rack in the upper third of the oven.Make the eggs: Whisk the eggs together with the milk and salt in a large mixing bowl. Film a 9x13 baking pan with cooking spray, and pour the eggs into the pan. Place on the lower rack in the oven. Bake until the eggs are puffed around the edges with golden spots, and a paring knife inserted in the middle comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool completely.Make the bacon (optional): Line a baking sheet with foil. Lay the bacon on the baking sheet in a single layer with no pieces overlapping. Turn up the edges of the foil to catch the grease. Place the bacon on the upper rack in the oven and bake until the bacon is crispy, 15 to 20 minutes. When finished, transfer the bacon to a plate lined with paper towels to drain. When cool, break each piece in half to make them easier to fit on the sandwiches. [I just fried all the bacon in a cast iron pan on my stove.]Slice the cheese: If you haven’t already done so, slice 6 pieces of cheese.Toast the English muffins: When the eggs and the bacon are both finished, place the English muffins cut-side-up on a baking sheet and toast in the oven for just a few minutes, until the edges are toasted. If desired, you can brush the muffins with butter before toasting. [I also put them under the broiler for just 2-3 minutes until the muffins gained some toasted color.]Cut out the egg rounds: Use a spatula to lift the eggs out of the pan and onto a cutting board. Using a large biscuit cutter or drinking glass (roughly the same size as your English muffins), cut 6 rounds out of the eggs. (The scraps can be used to make more sandwiches if you have extra English muffins, or they can go in salads, stir-fries, or other quick meals during the week.) [It made a fair amount of leftovers–probably 2-3 eggs worth. I used them in fried rice and in breakfast grits.]Assemble the sandwiches: Lay the bottom halves of the English muffins in a row on your counter. Top each one with an egg round, a slice of cheese, and 2 pieces of bacon (if using). Finish by adding the muffin tops. [I threw the completed sandwiches back in the oven for just about 1-2 minutes to melt the cheese. And then I let the sandwiches cool completely before freezing.]Wrap the sandwiches for freezing: Wrap each sandwich in a square of aluminum foil. Use a permanent marker to write the contents and date on the sandwich. Put all the sandwiches in a freezer bag or container.Freeze for up to 1 month.Reheating instructions: Unwrap the frozen sandwich and place on a microwave-safe plate lined with a paper towel. (The towel helps absorb some of the melting ice so the bread doesn’t get soggy.) Heat at full power for 1 to 1 ½ minutes, or until the cheese is melted and the egg is warmed through. (You can also toast the muffin top separately, if you’d like!)Recipe NotesHot breakfast sandwiches for a crowd: You can serve everything right away, if you like! Assemble the sandwiches after all the components are out of the oven, while the eggs are still warm. To melt the cheese, place the open-faced sandwiches in the warm oven for a few minutes, then add the toasted English muffin top.Refrigerator breakfast sandwiches: You can also refrigerate all the sandwich components separately and assemble them when ready to eat. All the components will keep for up to 5 days.
