---
layout: post
title: Tomato and Goat Cheese Quiche
date: '2016-04-19T16:01:01-05:00'
tags:
- tomato
- eggs
- goat cheese
- meals
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/143077368355/tomato-and-goat-cheese-quiche
---
Nom nom no, adapted from NYT Recipes and combined with this Christy Augustin quiche recipe. 1 quiche crust 2 cups unbleached, all-purpose flour1 tsp kosher salt½ tsp granulated sugar (optional)1½ sticks cold unsalted butter, cubed into walnut-sized pieces½ cup ice water1 Tbsp apple cider vinegar3 tablespoons Dijon mustard1 ½ pounds ripe tomatoes4 ounces goat cheese, crumbled1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oilQuiche Batter (Yields 1 quiche)3 whole eggs2 egg yolks¼ cup heavy cream½ cup whole milk½ cup sour cream or crème fraîche2 tsp kosher salt (reduce if your cheeses are saltier)1 tsp freshly ground black pepper2 to 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley, marjoram, basil or a combination, or 2 to 3 teaspoons fresh thyme or chopped rosemaryPreparation – Pâte Brisée: In a large bowl, combine flour, salt and sugar. Add half of butter and begin working the fat into the flour by hand until a cornmeal texture is achieved. Add remaining cold butter and rub into flour mix until pieces are the size of hazelnuts. Using a fork, gently toss cold water and vinegar into the mix using to create rough, shaggy dough. It should still be dry and crumbly but comes together when squeezed. Divide mixture in half. [I just do all of these steps in my food processor, in the order she recommends.]On a lightly floured work surface, smear dough with the heel of your hand, ball it up and repeat 2 to 3 times until a cohesive dough forms. This trick makes the flakiest crust. Form each half into a round, wrap in plastic wrap and chill for 2 hours or up to 2 days before rolling.Preparation – Quiche Batter: Thoroughly whisk eggs, heavy cream, milk, sour cream, kosher salt, and ground pepper together. Refrigerate until ready to use, up to 3 days.Assembly: Preheat oven to 400ºF. Prepare either a 9½-inch-by-10-inch pie pan with pie weights and set aside. Roll chilled dough on a lightly floured work surface into a circle between 1/8-inch and ¼-inch thick and 12 inches around. Transfer dough into pan, form a crimped edge and thoroughly dock the bottom with a fork. Freeze quiche shell for 20 minutes.Line frozen shell with a piece of parchment filled with dried beans or raw rice and transfer to oven to blind-bake for 15 minutes. Remove pie weights and bake another 5 to 10 minutes until dark golden brown. Turn oven down to 350ºF. Brush the mustard over the bottom of the dough. Slice the tomatoes and arrange over the mustard in concentric circles, overlapping them slightly. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and the herbs.Pour custard batter over top as full as your pan will allow. Sprinkle goat cheese over. Drizzle on the olive oil. [If you want the goat cheese to be more integrated, beat it into your custard base.] Bake quiche on a sheet tray for 45 minutes until the top is toasty brown, the center is puffed and the quiche has a nice jiggle when shaken.
