---
layout: post
title: Waffle
date: '2016-04-13T16:00:48-05:00'
tags:
- snacks/sides
- breakfast
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/142756416672/waffle
---
Recently, my food blogging significantly fell off and that’s because my fella and I got married last month! However, now my blogging should increase because I get to play with all the new kitchen tools people were kind enough to gift to us. Two such treats play into this fantastic recipe: our new waffle maker and Kenji Lopez-Alt’s The Food Lab cookbook. While sometimes better cooking through science seems like a headache, it usually does produce better quality dishes; so while I was like, club soda? Stiff peaked eggs whites?! Woof. This recipe did create incredibly fluffy waffles and was worth the small amount of extra effort.*This made about 5 waffles in my electric Belgian waffle maker. 1 recipe Basic Dry Pancake Mix [*see recipe below]2 large eggs1 ½ cups buttermilk4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted1 cup ice-cold club soda1 teaspoon vanilla extractButter or oil for the waffle ironMaple SyrupPreheat an electric waffle iron, on the low-heat setting if you have the option, or heat a stovetop waffle iron over medium-low heat. Place the dry mix in a large bowl.In a medium bowl, whisk the egg whites until stiff peaks form. [Even if you use a mixer, know this may take 10 minutes or longer!] In a clean large bowl, whisk the egg yolks and buttermilk until homogeneous. Slowly drizzle in the butter while whisking. Carefully fold the egg whites into the yolk mixture with a rubber spatula until just combined. Fold in the soda water. Pour the mixture over the dry mix and fold until just combined (there should still be plenty of lumps).If using a 7-inch round stovetop waffle iron, ladle ½ cup of batter into the iron and cook, flipping it occasionally, until the waffle is golden brown and crisp on both sides, about 8 minutes. If using a Belgian waffle iron, scoop ¼ cup batter into each well, close the iron, and immediately flip it, then continue cooking, turning occasionally, until the waffles are golden brown and crisp on both sides, about 10 minutes. If using an electric waffle iron, preheat and cook according to the manufacturer’s instructions. [For me, I put ¼ cup of batter in each well & the cooking time was about 4 minutes.]Transfer to a plate, or keep warm on a rack on a baking sheet in a 200 degree F oven, and cook the remaining batches.I topped my pancake with sifted powdered sugar and fresh strawberries!Basic Dry Pancake Mix10 oz (2 cups) all-purpose flour1 teaspoon baking powder½ teaspoon baking soda1 teaspoon kosher salt1 tablespoon sugarCombine all ingredients into a medium bowl and whisk until homogeneous. Transfer to airtight container. The mix will stay good for 3 months.
