---
layout: post
title: Asparagus and Ramp Quiche
date: '2016-05-15T16:00:52-05:00'
tags:
- asparagus
- ramps
- quiche
- eggs
- meals
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/144416555204/asparagus-and-ramp-quiche
---
This is simply a springtime variation on my favorite quiche recipe! NOTE: I didn’t add any herbs to this quiche, but I’m sure parsley would be fantastic (rather than the usual thyme I include in quiche recipes). For the Quiche filling:1 bunch of ramps (My bunch had 6-7 ramps, but you could increase or decrease depending on your love of ramps.)6-8 thin to medium sized asparagus stalksPrepare your veggies. Slice the end of the ramp, then thinly slice the white portion/bulb of the ramp; put these to the side. Then cut the stem off the ramp greens, and roughly chop the greens into 2 inch segments.  For the asparagus, chop or snap the bottom inch or so off the bottom to get rid of the woody bit. Then cut each asparagus into 1 inch segments. Melt 1 tablespoon of butter in a pan on medium heat. Add the asparagus and the sliced white part of the ramps; season with salt and pepper and saute for 5 minutes. Then add the greens and cook until wilted, about 2 more minutes. Add this filling to the quiche shell before pouring in quiche batter.Pâte Brisée (Yields 2 crusts)Note from Augustin: Why go through all the trouble of making pie crust from scratch and not make extra? This recipe creates enough dough to make two pie crusts. If you’re only making one quiche, simply wrap the extra crust tightly and freeze for future use (thaw frozen crust in the refrigerator for several hours before baking). Pie crust dough will keep in the freezer for up to one month.2 cups unbleached, all-purpose flour1 tsp kosher salt½ tsp granulated sugar (optional)1½ sticks cold unsalted butter, cubed into walnut-sized pieces½ cup ice water1 Tbsp apple cider vinegarQuiche Batter (Yields 1 quiche)3 whole eggs2 egg yolks¼ cup heavy cream½ cup whole milk½ cup sour cream or crème fraîche2 tsp kosher salt (reduce if your cheeses are saltier)1 tsp freshly ground black pepper1 Tbsp fresh thyme (or herb of choice)1½ to 2 cups crumbled cheese (try local goat cheese, Gorgonzola and Gruyère) [I often include 1 cup of whatever cheese I have, usually cheddar, and ½ cup- 1 cup of grated parmesan. I shred the blocks of cheese in my food processor, since I don’t usually keep crumbly cheese.]| Preparation – Pâte Brisée | In a large bowl, combine flour, salt and sugar. Add half of butter and begin working the fat into the flour by hand until a cornmeal texture is achieved. Add remaining cold butter and rub into flour mix until pieces are the size of hazelnuts. Using a fork, gently toss cold water and vinegar into the mix using to create rough, shaggy dough. It should still be dry and crumbly but comes together when squeezed. Divide mixture in half. [I just do all of these steps in my food processor, in the order she recommends.]On a lightly floured work surface, smear dough with the heel of your hand, ball it up and repeat 2 to 3 times until a cohesive dough forms. This trick makes the flakiest crust. Form each half into a round, wrap in plastic wrap and chill for 2 hours or up to 2 days before rolling.| Preparation – Quiche Batter | Thoroughly whisk all ingredients together, except for thyme and cheese. Refrigerate until ready to use, up to 3 days.| Assembly | Preheat oven to 400ºF. Prepare either a 9½-inch-by-10-inch pie pan with pie weights and set aside. Roll chilled dough on a lightly floured work surface into a circle between 1/8-inch and ¼-inch thick and 12 inches around. Transfer dough into pan, form a crimped edge and thoroughly dock the bottom with a fork. Freeze quiche shell for 20 minutes.Line frozen shell with a piece of parchment filled with dried beans or raw rice and transfer to oven to blind-bake for 15 minutes. Remove pie weights and bake another 5 to 10 minutes until dark golden brown. Turn oven down to 350ºF. Fill shell with thyme and cheeses and pour custard batter over top as full as your pan will allow. Bake quiche on a sheet tray for 45 minutes until the top is toasty brown, the center is puffed and the quiche has a nice jiggle when shaken.
