---
layout: post
title: Booby Rolls
date: '2016-01-04T16:01:11-06:00'
tags:
- bread
- baked goodies
tumblr_url: http://sneakyguacamole.tumblr.com/post/136631806633/booby-rolls
---
A belated friends-giving recipe. A slightly sweet, and certainly cute, roll via Food52. Makes 32 boob-shaped rolls1 ½ cups whole milk¾ cup unsalted butter2/3 cup honey, divided2 ¼ teaspoons dry active yeast (about 1 packet)2 large eggs1 ½ teaspoons sea salt4 ¼ cups all-purpose flourHeat milk to a simmer on the stovetop. Add ¼ cup butter to the milk, stirring until the butter melts. Stir in 1/3 cup honey. Pour the milk into the bowl of an electric mixer to cool a bit. When the milk mixture is barely over room temperature, sprinkle the yeast over the top. Swirl the bowl a couple times, then let the yeast sit and foam for at least 10 minutes.Once the yeast looks foamy, add in the eggs and salt. Then place a bread hook on your mixer (even my cheap hand mixer came with dough hooks) and turn the mixer on low. Slowly add the flour until the dough comes away from the sides into a ball but is still sticky. (Only add 4 ¼ cups of flour, unless extra is needed to make the dough pull away from the sides.) Once the dough pulls away from the bowl, stop the mixer; cover the bowl with a damp towel and let it rise for 1 to 2 hours, until it has doubled in size).Punch the dough down [you really do just punch it, here’s a video] and cut into 32 equal pieces with a floured knife. Then gently roll into short ropes and tie into boob knots(!!!). [I used this youtube video to help me shape the rolls. As you can tell from my picture, they didn’t look QUITE like boobs, but I thought they were still cute.] Place the yeast rolls on a parchment paper lined baking sheet, about 2 inches apart, and cover with lightly dampened tea towels. Allow the rolls to rise a second time for 30 to 45 minutes.Preheat the oven to 375° F. Melt the remaining ½ cup butter and whisk with 1/3 cup honey. Once the rolls have risen the second time, remove the towels and gently brush each roll with honey butter. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes until golden brown. Wait five minutes before serving.
